OIDC: Add a property enabling to use client authentication for discovery and JWKS endpoints (#54433)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-oidc-code-flow-authentication.adoc

<2> Path to a JWT bearer token.
Quarkus loads a new token from the filesystem and reloads it when the token expires.

> If the OIDC provider, such as Kubernetes, also enforces authenticated access to the discovery and JWKS endpoints, set `quarkus.oidc.credentials.for-all-endpoints=true`.

Reviewer: Hi @michalvavrik, thanks, we should probably try to rephrase it and expand a bit, I know I typed it in a similar fashion earlier, as OpenShirt, Kubernetes, are not providers.

Perhaps:

 
```suggestion
When an OIDC provider, such as the one that can be used by Kubernetes, also enforces authenticated access to the discovery and/or JWKS endpoints, set `quarkus.oidc.credentials.for-all-endpoints=true`.

Since HTTP GET requests are used to access both the discovery and JWKS endpoints, this property can only be effective when OIDC client id and secret are also configured for them to be passed as an HTTP Authorization `Basic` scheme value. 

Alternatively, use <<oidc-client-request,OidcRequestFilter>> to provide OIDC client authentication details. 
```

Note, what I don't know, if using a `Bearer` scheme where JWT source is bearer or (spiffe) can also be effective for such cases. Do we know if it is the case ?

Also, this should probably be an independent, probably last subsection of OIDC client authentication section, titled, probably, as `Authenticated access to all OIDC endpoints`, that we can refer to from various places

Author: > Note, what I don't know, if using a Bearer scheme where JWT source is bearer or (spiffe) can also be effective for such cases. Do we know if it is the case ?

Of course, as far as I know that is major use case. You can either use the token mounted to your pod, or create a service account and use its token from outside of the cluster. Here is example of using the token as a header: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/access-api-from-pod/#without-using-a-proxy see the `curl` examples

> Also, this should probably be an independent, probably last subsection of OIDC client authentication section, titled, probably, as Authenticated access to all OIDC endpoints, that we can refer to from various places

I had it there and moved it here because this is what I think is the use case (here we explain the jwt bearer source). But sure, I'll move it there as you want...

Author: No SPIFFE, I didn't find how could it work...

Author: I have updated it in a way. Let's have a look if it looks better. I emphasized the bearer source because that the most important use case, so I didn't use exactly your words.

Reviewer: Hi @michalvavrik, I created this issue after two users, one of them at the RH channel, mentioned 403 for the discovery endpoint, I don't think the jwt bearer source was involved.

The jwt bearer source idea, as is spiffe, is about avoiding configuring client id and secret, not specifically about avoiding 403 at the discovery endpoint.

I'll have a deeper look a bit later, but I think we should not be tying it to the jwt bearer source

Author: > Hi @michalvavrik, I created this issue after two users, one of them at the RH channel, mentioned 403 for the discovery endpoint, I don't think the jwt bearer source was involved.

I have looked into this repeatedly, sorry, I cannot find any public mainstream OIDC provider for client secret, while the fact that Kubernetes API requires it for JWKS and discovery endpoints seems given to me. I can lookup for you actual K8 code, but I believe it will be easy for you to find it.

As for SPIFFE, it is trivial to add it, but see below, I didn't want to add something noone needs. I will add it if you want. Client secret on the other hand seems realistic that some proprietary OIDC provider may require.

> I'll have a deeper look a bit later, but I think we should not be tying it to the jwt bearer source

I think you have got this one wrong, I did my research. If you want it implemented differently though, just let me know.

Author: @sberyozkin this is interesting https://www.apicur.io/blog/2026/03/17/openshift-oauth-integration that users need to relax security because Quarkus OIDC is not sending credentials to GET endpoints, citing:

```
The K8s API server JWKS endpoint is restricted by default. Since Quarkus OIDC fetches JWKS without authentication, we need to open it up. 
```

and they use client secret. I don't want to state this as a fact, but here is how I understand it. In OpenShift:

- Kubernetes API Server inside OCP manages cluster infra. Identifies are service accounts. Only way how to access it without relaxing security is using the mounted token to the pod or SA token from outside of the cluster. For both our JWT bearer source is what users must use.
- OpenShift OAuth Server inside OCP is SSO for things like OpenShift console. There OAuth2 server accepts client secret and users use access tokens when users want to use UI to manage services deployed to OCP like Apicurio

However OpenShift OAuth Server JWKS and discovery endpoints are not secured, therefore what the Apicuriou article describes is that they in fact need to use the JWT bearer source to access K8 API server.

Please bear it mind that I am not expert here, but I consider it clear that my idea using the JWT bearer token is not wrong, I just cannot tell you if there are other OIDC providers out there which prefer client secret.

Reviewer: @michalvavrik OK, sure, let's make a focus on the bearer token but keep in mind it is not positioned as a Kubernetes specific enhancement, please also see my comment re the blog in the other comment.

Let me resolve this one

quarkus.oidc.introspection-credentials.secret=introspection-user-secret
----

> [[authenticated-access-to-all-oidc-endpoints]]

Reviewer: @michalvavrik Hi Michal,  this is very well written, thanks

==== Authenticated access to all OIDC endpoints

OIDC discovery and JWKS are typically public endpoints.
Some OIDC providers may enforce authenticated access to these endpoints.

> For example, the Kubernetes API server acts as an OIDC provider for service account tokens and requires a bearer token to access its discovery and JWKS endpoints.

Reviewer: Does passing client id and secret  as Basic scheme value also works? Asking because we say client secret basic mode works below, so may be here we should say that it requires either of the options. 

By the way, spiffe is too new I guess this is why it is not in the docs yet, we can add later.

Anyway,  great work,  thanks

Author: > Does passing client id and secret as Basic scheme value also works?

It works for any OIDC provider, see tests. Does Kubernetes Service Account Issuer Discovery accepts it? No, it accepts the mounted token to the pod or the SA token, both are the same thing, they are JWT bearer tokens that we get from the file-based client assertion provider.

> Asking because we say client secret basic mode works below, so may be here we should say that it requires either of the options.

The reason I am trying to downplay client secret is that I simply didn't find major OIDC Identity Provider that accepts it on GET endpoints. Now I didn't look myself, I simply asked Gemini, so I don't say there are none. I also think that we don't know about all OIDC providers as some are proprietary, so I suggest that we still support it as it is hardly any code extra. This PR would look almost same without supporting client secret.

> By the way, spiffe is too new I guess this is why it is not in the docs yet, we can add later.

I didn't add it intentionally, I couldn't find any use case and I know your preference to not support anything that may be useful unless someone asked. It should be super trivial to add it, but I agree to add it later (whenever you want).

Reviewer: @michalvavrik Michal, sure, I simply would like us to add clear docs, here we say KB `requires a bearer token` and also say `use HTTP headers are effective, such as 'client_secret_basic' and <<jwt-bearer-client-authentication,JWT bearer>>.` - these two statements conflict.

Sure, let's prefer the focus on the bearer token, how about:

IMHO, we should say, that KB, instead of `requires a bearer token`, `requires authentication using either a bearer access token or a client id and secret when the  token is not available`.

The quote from the linked blog that using a client id and secret to access a JWKs endpoint opens it is misleading, because 1) this endpoint offers `public` keys which is why it is a public endpoint for the vast majority of providers and 2) this client is and secret goes as HTTP Authorization via the back channel, in this regard, using POST with client and secret in the body is no more secure unless HTTPS and or mTLS are used.

Also, please tune `use HTTP headers are effective` to `use HTTP Authorization header are effective`

Author: I have tuned the headers, but I have bit professional problem to simply do what you want unless you prove that it is possible, because for what I know: `requires authentication using either a bearer access token or a client id and secret when the  token is not available` is not true. Now, I have taken it as far as I can in checking how K8 API server works, if you know it accepts client secrets, let's show me and I can document it.

Otherwise, I suggest that we follow what K8 documentation clearly states and what I can also find in K8 code base, which is that you can use either mounted token or the SA token.

I suspect we don't understand each other, but I don't know how else to write it, I thought my previous comments said how I understand this feature. I also think it is simple matter, not sure how else to explain it :disappointed: 

> this endpoint offers public keys which is why it is a public endpoint for the vast majority of providers

There is no K8 that clearly explains why they decided to secure JWKS endpoints. FWIW, my understanding is that they secure all K8 API server paths in clusters with RBAC to only allow authorized requests (thinking it based on https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#service-account-issuer-discovery). And it means that unauthorized requests cannot find out what is issuer URL or supported cryptographic algorithm. So it is not `public`, it is information only available to users for who it is relevant.

> this client is and secret goes as HTTP Authorization via the back channel, in this regard, using POST with client and secret in the body is no more secure unless HTTPS and or mTLS are used.

I think you are confusing K8 API server with Openshift OAuth2 server, but I don't know how else to explain it because I already explain how I understand the difference in https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/pull/54433#discussion_r3297060744. OpenShift OAuth2 server doesn't have secured JWKS endpoint.

TL;DR; @sberyozkin  if you are absolutely certain that you want to write there about client secret, I'll write it there, but I think we shouldn't link it to K8 which simply do not accept client secret. Can you suggest some text which speaks about client secret but not about K8 so that I can simply apply your suggestion? I would really appreciate it. Thank you

Reviewer: @michalvavrik OK, sure, let's leave it as is, why they decided to block the discovery and JWKS endpoints is their decision in the end of the day that makes little sense IMHO, but this is what they do and in the end of the day, we just want to help users avoid writing custom interceptors.

Indeed, I'm not sure in what context the client id and secret was mentioned, so let's keep the current format.

To send client credentials to these endpoints, set `quarkus.oidc.credentials.for-all-endpoints=true`.

> Since discovery and JWKS are accessed with HTTP GET requests, only authentication methods that use the HTTP `Authorization` header are effective, such as `client_secret_basic` and <<jwt-bearer-client-authentication,JWT bearer>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the discovery and JWKS endpoints are accessed with HTTP GET requests, only authentication methods that use the HTTP `Authorization` header are effective, such as `client_secret_basic` and <<jwt-bearer-client-authentication,JWT bearer>>.
```
